In this scenario you will learn more about developing Spring Boot Microservices using the [Red Hat OpenShift Application Runtimes](https://developers.redhat.com/products/rhoar) platform. You will learn about how to implement Single Sign-On (SSO) using KeyCloak and Spring Security.

## How is Spring Boot supported on OpenShift?

Spring is one of the most popular Java Frameworks and offers an alternative to the Java EE programming model. Spring is also very popular for building applications based on a microservices Architecture due to Spring's support for packaging applications into self-contained, deployable JAR files. For web applications, Spring Boot can embed a servlet container, like Apache Tomcat. This allows for the creation of a self-sufficient JAR file which can be deployed and run without  external tools (other than the Java Runtime of course!). These bootable applications (sometimes also called fat JARs or über JARs) fit the container model very well because the starting, stopping, and monitoring of an application is handled by the container platform (e.g., OpenShift), instead of an application server. Additionally, a container definition is simpler compared to deploying a war file.

Red Hat tests and certifies a certain version of Spring and Spring Boot for usage on the OpenShift platform as part of Red Hat OpenShift Application Runtimes. Red Hat also provides full support for Apache Tomcat, Hibernate and Apache CXF (for REST services) when used in a Spring Boot application on OpenShift Application Runtimes.
